Difference between HTTP1.1 and HTTP2

Introduction
The Hypertext Transfer Protocol, or HTTP, is an application protocol that has been the de facto standard for communication on the World Wide Web since its invention in 1989. From the release of HTTP/1.1 in 1997 until recently, there have been few revisions to the protocol. But in 2015, a reimagined version called HTTP/2 came into use, which offered several methods to decrease latency, especially when dealing with mobile platforms and server-intensive graphics and videos. HTTP/2 has since become increasingly popular, with some estimates suggesting that around a third of all websites in the world support it. In this changing landscape, web developers can benefit from understanding the technical differences between HTTP/1.1 and HTTP/2, allowing them to make informed and efficient decisions about evolving best practices.

After reading this article, you will understand the main differences between HTTP/1.1 and HTTP/2, concentrating on the technical changes HTTP/2 has adopted to achieve a more efficient Web protocol.






    HTTP1.1:
    
    Developed by Timothy Berners-Lee in 1989 as a communication standard for the World Wide Web, HTTP is a top-level application protocol that exchanges information between a client computer and a local or remote web server. In this process, a client sends a text-based request to a server by calling a method like GET or POST. In response, the server sends a resource like an HTML page back to the client

        HTTP1.1 works on the textual format.
        It works in over 15 years.
        It compresses data by itself.
        It uses requests resource in-lining for use getting multiple pages.
        It loads a single request for every TCP connection.
   
    HTTP2:
    HTTP/2 began as the SPDY protocol, developed primarily at Google with the intention of reducing web page load latency by using techniques such as compression, multiplexing, and prioritization. This protocol served as a template for HTTP/2 when the Hypertext Transfer Protocol working group httpbis of the IETF (Internet Engineering Task Force) put the standard together, culminating in the publication of HTTP/2 in May 2015. From the beginning, many browsers supported this standardization effort, including Chrome, Opera, Internet Explorer, and Safari. Due in part to this browser support, there has been a significant adoption rate of the protocol since 2015, with especially high rates among new sites.
    
    
    
        It is faster and more reliable than the http1.
        It works on the binary protocol.
        It used push frame by server that collects all multiple pages.
        It avoids network delay by using multiplexing.

Objects and its internal representation in javascript!!!

        Objects is most important data types and forms the building blocks for modern javascript.
        JavaScript primitive data types (Number, String, Boolean, Null,Undefined & Symbol).
        Objects are more complex and each object may contain any combination of these primitive data types as well as reference data types.
        Object is a reference data types. Variables that are assigned a reference value.
        
